feat(bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers): add EoL for Personal Templates (#7797)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/personal-templates-end-of-life/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: Personal installation templates end of life
excerpt: Information about removal of your personal installation templates & workaround
updated: 2025-04-28
---

**This is an important piece of information, please read the entire message carefully.**

## Context

> OVHcloud is constantly evolving and must adapt its offerings to the increasingly resilient and regulated cloud market. In order to meet those new challenges the **personal template for dedicated servers OS installation** will be fully decommissioned the **7th of October 2025**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OVHcloud is constantly evolving and must adapt its offerings to the increasingly resilient and regulated cloud market. In order to meet those new challenges, **personal templates for dedicated servers OS installation** will be fully decommissioned on the **7th of October 2025**.
```

Reviewer: Après avoir relu le reste, je pense qu'il faudrait étoffer un peu l'introduction pour présenter immédiatement le fait qu'on a deux routes API, quelque chose comme ça :

OVHcloud is constantly evolving and must adapt its offerings to the increasingly resilient and regulated cloud market. In order to meet those new challenges, a new API route was created to start OS installation tasks on bare metal servers. This new /reinstall [add a link to the console or something here] call does not support **personal templates for dedicated servers OS installation**.
The OVHcloud control panel also relies on this new route and therefore no longer supports personal templates either.
Personal templates will be fully decommissioned on the **7th of October 2025**.

Until then, the older /install/start [add a link there too] API call may still be used to start OS installations with a personal template. However, please note that this route, will eventually be deprecated in favor of /reinstall at a later date.

Author: C'est pas pour réussir les nouveaux challenges (regionalization, IAM account delegation) qu'on a créé un nouveau call API. Les transformations regionalization/IAM impliquent la suppression de ce système de template personnel. Et indirectement oui on a créé un nouveau call API, mais c'est pas la conséquence directe de regionalization/IAM

> This service was used to request an OS installation on a dedicated servers by targeting a personal template instead of an operating system with the following elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature allowed requesting an OS installation on a dedicated server by using a personal template containing with following elements:
```
La partie "instead of an operating system" ne me semblait pas nécessaire.

- operating system to be installed

> - partitioning customization layout,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- partitioning layout,
```

- hardware RAID configuration,
- hostname,
- SSH public key,

> - post installation script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- post-installation script.
```

This decommissioning will be done in 2 steps:

### Step 1: 17th of June 2025<a name="step-1"></a>

> - Customers will no longer be able to **edit** or **add** new personal templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customers will no longer be able to **edit** or **add** new personal templates.
```

> - Customers having personal template(s) and active dedicated servers services will receive custom technical informations by email to help them migrate their personal template(s) using the new API call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customers having personal template(s) and active subscriptions to dedicated servers will receive custom technical information by email to help them migrate their personal template(s) to the new /reinstall API call.
```
Et ajouter un lien vers la section suivante qui explique comment utiliser l'API à la place ? En lisant la première fois, je ne savais pas que la doc allait suivre.

### Step 2: 7th of October 2025<a name="step-2"></a>

> - Customers will no longer be able to access their personal templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customers will no longer be able to access their personal templates.
```

> - All personal templates data will be deleted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All data related to personal templates will be deleted.
```

> Note that customers will still have the email from the 17th of June 2025 with technical documentation based on their personal templates data to migrate to new API call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that customers will still have the email from the 17th of June 2025 with technical documentation based on their personal templates data to help them migrate to the new API call.
```

## Instructions

> The following section contains specific information per usage of the service.

Reviewer: Cette phrase devrait être reformulée ou enlevée. Telle quelle, je ne la comprends pas vraiment.

### Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi Control Panel<a name="ux"></a>

> The `Install one of your templates`{.action} wizard to install an operating system on a dedicated server has already been removed since mid-April. If you were using that wizard you have 3 long-term possibilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Install one of your templates`{.action} wizard to install an operating system on a dedicated server has already been removed since mid-April 2025. If you were using that wizard you have 3 long-term possibilities:
```

> - keep using the web graphical interface (not recommended): update your process with screenshots with all the customizations in the OS install wizard (= former `Install from an OVHcloud template`{.action} wizard)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- keep using the Web interface (not recommended): manually apply all customizations in the OS install wizard (former `Install from an OVHcloud template`{.action} wizard) every time you need to perform an installation
```
Car je pense que la partie "mettre à jour votre doc" devrait être enlevée, ça fait bizarre.

> - move to API (best for automation, but requires programming skills): see section [Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi API](#api) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- write a script that uses the API (best for automation, but requires programming skills): see section [Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi API](#api) below.
```
Car c'est la seule différence avec l'autre méthode plus bas ?

> - move to the API console (recommended, good tradeoff): update your process with screenshots and links to the console API. Once authenticated, you just need to provide in the documentation the exact JSON payload with the OS installation details. **You will receive the corresponding payloads to your personal templates in the communication of the 17th of June 2025**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- move to the API console (recommended, good tradeoff): Once authenticated, you just need to provide the exact JSON payload with the OS installation details. **You will receive the payloads corresponding to your personal templates in the email communication that will be sent on the 17th of June 2025**.
```
Pareil qu'au-dessus, je pense que dire dans une documentation au client comment faire sa documentation interne est trop complexe et peut porter à confusion.

> Although you could start exploring by yourself the examples and schemas of the [new API call in the API console](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) and look at its [public documentation](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/api-os-installation), here is the temporary workaround you can follow in the meantime of the email of the 17th of June 2025.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you could start exploring the examples and schemas of the [new API call in the API console](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) and look at its [public documentation](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/api-os-installation), here is the temporary workaround you can follow until your receive the payloads in the email of the 17th of June 2025.
```

#### OVHcloud workaround<a name="ux-ovh"></a>

As mentioned in the [OVHcloud APIs documentation](/pages/manage_and_operate/api/first-steps#sign-in-to-ovhcloud-apis), on the [OVHcloud console API](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/) page:
- Click `Authentication`{.action} in the upper left.
- Select `Login with OVHcloud SSO`{.action}.
- Enter your OVHcloud credentials.
- Click `Authorize`{.action} to allow performing API calls through the console.

![API](/pages/manage_and_operate/api/first-steps/images/login.png){.thumbnail}

Then run the API call to trigger an OS reinstallation from your personal template:
- Select `v1`{.action}.
- Choose `/dedicated/server`{.action} section.
- Find `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start`{.action} API call (you can use the filter).
- In the `serviceName` field, enter the name of the dedicated server you want to install.

> - In the `REQUEST BODY` field (aka. API payload), put the following JSON value (in this example we suppose "my-amazing-template" is the name of the personal template you want to install):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the `REQUEST BODY` field (aka. API payload), put the following JSON value (in this example we assume that "my-amazing-template" is the name of the personal template you want to install):
```

```json
{
  "templateName": "my-amazing-template"
}
```

> If you need to list your personal templates and their details, please go to `/me`{.action} section and look at all the `GET` API calls under `/me/installationTemplate`{.action}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to list your personal templates and their details, please go to the `/me`{.action} section and look at all the `GET` API calls under `/me/installationTemplate`{.action}.
```

> [!warning]
> **Performing a [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/install/start) to a dedicated server will erase all the data in that server. PLEASE BE CAREFUL WHILE USING THIS API CALL.**
>

> Then click `Execute`{.action} button to start the OS installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then click the `Execute`{.action} button to start the OS installation.
```

![console API](images/screenshot-api-console-workaround.png){.thumbnail}

You can go back to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager) on the dedicated server dashboard page to track the installation progress.

#### SoYouStart or Kimsufi workarounds<a name="ux-sys-ks"></a>

Open the [SoYouStart console API](https://eu.api.soyoustart.com/console/) or the [Kimsufi console API](https://eu.api.kimsufi.com/console/).

> Click `Login`{.action} on the top right corner and enter your credentials. Then click`Log in`{.action} button: you are now authenticated to the console API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click `Login`{.action} on the top right corner and enter your credentials. Then click the `Log in`{.action} button: you are now authenticated with the API console.
```

- Open the `/dedicated/server`{.action} section.
- Find the `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start`{.action} API call.
- In the `serviceName` field, enter the name of the dedicated server you want to install.
- In the `templateName` field, enter the name of the personal template you want to install.

> If you need to list your personal templates and their details, please go to `/me`{.action} section and look at all the `GET` API calls under `/me/installationTemplate`{.action}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to list your personal templates and their details, please go to the `/me`{.action} section and look at all the `GET` API calls under `/me/installationTemplate`{.action}.
```

> [!warning]
> **Performing a [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start](https://eu.api.soyoustart.com/console/#/dedicated/server/%7BserviceName%7D/install/start~POST) (or [here](https://eu.api.kimsufi.com/console/#/dedicated/server/%7BserviceName%7D/install/start~POST) for Kimsufi) to a dedicated server will erase all the data in that server. PLEASE BE CAREFUL WHILE USING THIS API CALL.**
>

> Then click `Execute`{.action} button to start the OS installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then click the `Execute`{.action} button to start the OS installation.
```

You can go back to the [SoYouStart](https://eu.soyoustart.com/manager) or [Kimsufi Control Panel](https://www.kimsufi.com/fr/manager) on the dedicated server dashboard page to track the installation progress.

> ### Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi API<a name="api"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi APIs<a name="api"></a>
```

> If you are using the OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi API to trigger OS installations from a personal template, you can continue using the `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start`{.action} API call until the 7th of October 2025.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi APIs to trigger OS installations from a personal template, you can continue using the `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start`{.action} API call until **the 7th of October 2025**.
```

> But please note that starting from the 17th of June 2025, you will no longer be able to add or edit personal templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But please note that starting from **the 17th of June 2025**, you will no longer be able to add or edit personal templates.
```

> Although you will receive an email with all the details to migrate your API payloads to the [new API call](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall), feel free to start exploring by yourself the examples and schemas of the [new API call in the API console](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) and look at its [public documentation](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/api-os-installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you will receive an email with all the details to migrate your API payloads to the [new API call](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall), feel free to start exploring the examples and schemas of the [new API call in the API console](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) and look at its [public documentation](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/api-os-installation).
```

> In your usage, end of personal templates service really simplifies the OS installation on dedicated servers, since the new API call [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/reinstall](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) brings all the possible customizations that the old API call [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/install/start) was not able to offer without the need to define a personal template under [/me/installationTemplate](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fme&branch=v1#get-/me/installationTemplate) earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your case, the end of the personal templates feature should simplify OS installation on dedicated servers. Indeed, the new API call [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/reinstall](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) brings all the possible customizations that the old API call [POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/install/start) was not able to offer without the need to first define a personal template under [/me/installationTemplate](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fme&branch=v1#get-/me/installationTemplate).
```
S'il reste des "service", je les remplacerais tous par "features", j'ai pu en oublier.

The following comparison gives you an idea of the reduced number of API calls to achieve a complex customization configuration involving hardware RAID and custom partitioning: from 4+n calls (where n is the number of partitions you have defined in your partitioning layout) to 1 single API call.

![API calls comparison](images/api-calls-comparison.png){.thumbnail}

> As you can see, everything becomes as-code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, everything becomes streamlined, eliminating the the need for heavy setup.
```
Les anciens calls étaient déjà as-code

---
title: End of life for personal installation templates
excerpt: Information about removal of your personal installation templates & workaround
updated: 2025-04-29
---

**This is an important piece of information, please read the entire message carefully as you might be impacted in the future if you request an OS installation on a new dedicated server or an OS reinstallation on a dedicated server you already have.**

## Context<a name="context"></a>

OVHcloud is constantly evolving and must adapt its offerings to the increasingly resilient and regulated cloud market. In order to meet those new challenges, **personal templates for dedicated servers OS installation** will be fully decommissioned on the **7th of October 2025**.

This feature allowed requesting an OS installation on a dedicated server by using a personal template containing with following elements:
- operating system to be installed
- partitioning layout,
- hardware RAID configuration,
- hostname,
- SSH public key,
- post-installation script.

> In order to simplify the OS installation on dedicated servers as well as the migration communication, a new API call `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/reinstall`{.action} was created. This API call is the successor of the old route `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start`{.action}. The old route had the ability to target an OS installation from an OVHcloud template **or a personal template**. Old route and personal templates notion will be decommissioned, and new route only has ability to target OS installation from an OVHcloud template. Also note that the confused "OVHcloud template" terminology will gradually disappear in favor of "operating system".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to simplify the OS installation on dedicated servers as well as the migration communication, a new API call was created: `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/reinstall`{.action}. This API call is the successor of the old route: `POST /dedicated/server/{serviceName}/install/start`{.action}. The old route had the ability to target an OS installation from an OVHcloud template **or a personal template**.

The old route and the notion of personal templates will be decommissioned in future. The new route only supports starting an OS installation from an OVHcloud template. Also, please note that the confusing "OVHcloud template" terminology will gradually disappear in favor of "operating system".
```

Personal templates decommissioning will be done in 2 steps:

### Step 1: 17th of June 2025<a name="step-1"></a>

- Customers will no longer be able to **edit** or **add** new personal templates.
- Customers having personal template(s) and active subscriptions to dedicated servers will receive custom technical information by email to help them migrate their personal template(s) to the [new /reinstall API call](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall).

### Step 2: 7th of October 2025<a name="step-2"></a>

- Customers will no longer be able to access their personal templates.
- All data related to personal templates will be deleted.

Please note that customers will still have the email from the 17th of June 2025 with technical documentation based on their personal templates data to help them migrate to the new API call.

## Instructions<a name="instructions"></a>

> The following section contains specific information depending on whether OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi customer and whether you are currently using control panel or API to install OS on your dedicated server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section contains specific information depending on whether you have an OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi account and whether you are currently using the control panel or the API to install OSes on your dedicated server.
```

### Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi Control Panel<a name="ux"></a>

The `Install one of your templates`{.action} wizard to install an operating system on a dedicated server has already been removed since mid-April 2025. If you were using that wizard you have 3 long-term possibilities:
- keep using the Web interface (not recommended): manually apply all customizations in the OS install wizard (former `Install from an OVHcloud template`{.action} wizard) every time you need to perform an installation
- write a script that uses the API (best for automation, but requires programming skills): see section [Using OVHcloud, SoYouStart or Kimsufi API](#api) below.
- move to the API console (recommended, good tradeoff): Once authenticated, you just need to provide the exact JSON payload with the OS installation details. **You will receive the payloads corresponding to your personal templates in the email communication that will be sent on the 17th of June 2025**.

> Although you could start exploring the examples and schemas of the [new /reinstall API call in the API console](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) and look at its [public documentation](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/api-os-installation), here is the temporary workaround you can follow until your receive the payloads for new API route in the email of the 17th of June 2025.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you could start exploring the examples and schemas of the [new /reinstall API call in the API console](https://eu.api.ovh.com/console/?section=%2Fdedicated%2Fserver&branch=v1#post-/dedicated/server/-serviceName-/reinstall) and look at its [public documentation](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/api-os-installation), here is the temporary workaround you can follow until your receive the payloads for the new API route in the email of the 17th of June 2025.
```
